NEXT UP:
- scale out to work with all books
- figure out what Temurah Bob uses and traverse his dictionary

Notariqon:
Notariqon is derived from the Latin word notarius, a shorthand writer. Of Notariqon there are
two forms.

- First form:
In the first every letter of a word is taken for the initial or abbreviation of another
word, so that from the letters of a word a sentence may be formed. Thus every letter of the
word tycarb, Berashith, the first word in Genesis, is made the initial of a word, and we obtain
hrwt larcy wlbqyc \yhla har tycarb, Be-Rashith Rahi Elohim Sheyequebelo Israel
Torah, “In the beginning the Elohim saw that Israel would accept the Law.”

- Second form:
The second form of Notariqon is the exact reverse of the first. By this the initial or finals or
both, or the medials, of a sentence, are taken to form a word or words. Thus the Qabalah is
called hrtsn hmkj, Chokham Nesethrah, “the secret wisdom”; and if we take the initials of
these two words j and n we form by the second kind of Notariqon the word }j, Chen, “grace.”
Similarly, from the initials and finals of the words hmymch wnl hluy ym, Mi Iaulah Leno haShamayimah,
“Who shall go up to heaven?” (Deuteronomy xxx, 12) are forms hlym, Milah,
“Circumcision,” and hwhy, the Tetragrammaton, implying that God hath ordained circumcision
as the way to heaven.

Temurah:
Temurah is permutation. According to certain rules, one letter is substituted for another letter
preceding or following it in the alphabet, and thus from one word another word of totally
different orthography may be formed. Thus the alphabet is bent exactly in half, in the middle,
and one half is put over the other; and then by changing alternately the first letter or the first two
letters at the beginning of the second line, twenty-two commutations are produced. These are
called the “Table of the Combinations of Tziruph ([wryx)”.

Each method takes its name from the first two pairs comprising it, the system of pairs of letters
being the groundwork of the whole, as either letter in a pair is substituted for the other letter.
Thus, by Albath, from jwr, Ruach, is formed uxd, Detzau. The names of the other twenty-one
methods are: tgba, tdga, gbda, dbha, hbwa, zbja, jbfa, fbya, ybka, kbla, lbma, mbna,
nbsa, sbua, ubpa, pbxa, xbqa, rbca and cbta. To these must be added the modes dgba
and \bla.

The Rational Table of Tziruph:
Then comes the “Rational Table of Tziruph,” another set of twenty-two
combinations.

Tables of the Commutations:
There are also three “Tables of the Commutations,” known respectively as the
Right, the Averse, and the Irregular. To make any of these, a square, containing 484 squares,
should be made, and the letters written in.

- Right Table:
For the “Right Table” write the alphabet across from
right to left: in the second from of squares do the same but begin with b and end with a; in the
third begin with g and end with b; and so no.

- Averse Table:
For the “Averse Table” write the alphabet from
right to left backwards, beginning with t and ending with a; in the second row begin with c
and end with t, &c.

- Irregular Table:
The “Irregular Table” would take too long to describe.

Thashraq:
Besides all these, there is the method called qrct, Thashraq, which is simply writing a word backwards

Aiq Bekar:
There is one more very important form, called the “Qabalah of the Nine Chambers” or
rkb qya, Aiq Bekar.
